New page for the commercial traffic twinning dataset (#19)
open-5g/openrangym: _posts/datasets/2024-09-30-open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Open-RAN Commercial Traffic Twinning Dataset"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Open RAN Commercial Traffic Twinning Dataset"
```

The dataset can be found <a href="https://github.com/wineslab/open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset" target="_blank">at this link</a>.
{: .text-justify}

We design a methodology to twin real-world cellular traffics traces in experimental Open RAN testbeds. We demonstrate our approach on the [Colosseum](/experimental-platforms/colosseum) wireless network emulator. The real-world traffic traces we use is the public dataset of LTE network obtained with FALCON from multiple BSs located in different areas of Madrid, Spain. We instantiate an Open RAN deployment on Colosseum and perform an extensive data-collection compaign to collect a dataset of timestamped PHY-, MAC-, and APP-layer KMPs. We use MGEN to generate the twinned traffic traces and apply five different slicing configutaions, and two different schedualing policies.

<img src="/assets/post-assets/traffic-twinning-pipeline.png" class="post-image" alt="ColO-RAN Architecture" width="50%">

> We emulate a 5G network with 1 base station and 8 users in the dense urban scenario of Rome, Italy. We consider a multi-slice scenario in which the users are statically assigned to a slice of the network. The traffic they request is generated by MGEN and falls into two different traffic types: high-capacity enhanced mobile broadband (eMBB) for UEs 1-4 allocated in slice 0, and ultra-reliable low-latency communications (URLLC) for UEs 5-8 allocated in slice 1. The traffic is twined from real-world traces from base stations in a suburban area of Madrid, covering three different spectrum bands (816 MHz, 1835 MHz, and 2650 MHz). For the same traffic and slicing configutation, we experiment with both schedualing policies proportionally fair (PF) and round-robin (RR). The dataset contains five different slicing configurations, each showing how the 50 PRBs (10 MHz of spectrum) are allocated between the two slices. The details are provided in the following tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We emulate a 5G network with 1 base station and 8 users in the dense urban scenario of Rome, Italy. We consider a multi-slice scenario in which the users are statically assigned to a slice of the network. The traffic they request is generated by MGEN and falls into two different traffic types: high-capacity enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) for UEs 1-4 allocated to slice 0, and Ultra-reliable Low-latency Communications (URLLC) for UEs 5-8 allocated to slice 1. The traffic is twinned from real-world traces from base stations in a suburban area of Madrid, covering three different spectrum bands (816 MHz, 1835 MHz, and 2650 MHz). For the same traffic and slicing configuration, we experiment with the proportionally fair and round-robin scheduling policies. The dataset contains five different slicing configurations, each showing how the 50 PRBs (10 MHz of spectrum) are allocated between the two slices. The details are provided in the following tables.
```
